4. Rome, Myth: What is the significance of the two mythological accounts of the founding of Rome?

One is a fairy tale, the other is possible

Virgil, who was a popular poet during the reign of Augustus, had written about the founding of Rome in a semi-realist epic known as the Aeneid. The poet, who although Augustus held an amount of contempt for the natures of arts, he praised Virgil as a poet for engaging in philosophical works that had adhered to his own form of belief. In this story, Virgil writes of a Trojan hero Aeneas, who after his journey in the stories, goes off to settle a new homeland for his people. A very believable story, claiming of a settler from Troy to found the Roman Empire.

On the other hand, lies an Etruscan tale comprising of disbelief, that would conform to the type of writing the Greeks and pagan historians would develop when writing of the gods. It is a story following the two tales of Remus and Romulus, who were birthed and abandoned to the wild to suckle from a she-wolf. They were born to be a superior person, enlightened and empowered by there childhood experiences following a diverse and unrealistic chronological form of events, they decide to build a city on the Palatine hill. After it's instantiation, the boys would then fight over who would rule this city, marking a predecessor for conflict of power that would consume Rome during the course of it's existence all of the way until it's downfall. Romulus ended up killing his brother, and claiming the position of king in his newfound city. Making a statement at his death, threatening any account of he who would dare to falsely claim the throne.

The significance of these two lies in their drastic contrast from the two cultures of which they were composed. For the creator of the Aeneid, he lived in a societal culture of written importance, where realism claimed law and useless work that was non productive was meaningless. This was the reign of Augustus. A culture that embraced story telling and did nothing else other than that as far as it went for keeping knowledge, were the Etruscans. They specialized in drawing pictures and sculpting. The story of Rome can be shown from different sculptural monuments, like the one displayed in the book with the she wolf and the young boys. This is perhaps why that story was more creative than the one made of Virgil.
